# Animation Overview
1. Animation bitmaps (drawable animation)
2. Animation UI visibility and motion (UI的可见性和运动)
3. Physics-based motion 物理运动 （Spring Animation & Fling Animation）
4. Animation between activities (activity 切换动效)


# 渐变动画 （Tween animation） View Animation
> A tween animation can perform a series of simple transformations (position, size, rotation, and transparency) on the contents of a View object

*position, size, rotation, and transparency*

xml示例
    <set android:shareInterpolator="false">
    <scale
        android:interpolator="@android:anim/accelerate_decelerate_interpolator"
        android:fromXScale="1.0"
        android:toXScale="1.4"
        android:fromYScale="1.0"
        android:toYScale="0.6"
        android:pivotX="50%"
        android:pivotY="50%"
        android:fillAfter="false"
        android:duration="700" />
    <set android:interpolator="@android:anim/decelerate_interpolator">
        <scale
           android:fromXScale="1.4"
           android:toXScale="0.0"
           android:fromYScale="0.6"
           android:toYScale="0.0"
           android:pivotX="50%"
           android:pivotY="50%"
           android:startOffset="700"
           android:duration="400"
           android:fillBefore="false" />
        <rotate
           android:fromDegrees="0"
           android:toDegrees="-45"
           android:toYScale="0.0"
           android:pivotX="50%"
           android:pivotY="50%"
           android:startOffset="700"
           android:duration="400" />
    </set>
    </set>

启动动画

        ImageView spaceshipImage = (ImageView) findViewById(R.id.spaceshipImage);
        Animation hyperspaceJumpAnimation = AnimationUtils.loadAnimation(this, R.anim.hyperspace_jump);
        spaceshipImage.startAnimation(hyperspaceJumpAnimation);


# 属性动画
可以使view的某个属性，比如alpha等随着某个差值器生成的值改变。

<set android:ordering="sequentially">
    <set>
        <objectAnimator
            android:propertyName="x"
            android:duration="500"
            android:valueTo="400"
            android:valueType="intType"/>
        <objectAnimator
            android:propertyName="y"
            android:duration="500"
            android:valueTo="300"
            android:valueType="intType"/>
    </set>
    <objectAnimator
        android:propertyName="alpha"
        android:duration="500"
        android:valueTo="1f"/>
</set>

# 属性动画和view 动画的区别
1. view动画只能作用于view
2. view动画只能改变（position, size, rotation, and transparency），不能改变背景色等其他属性
3. view动画不改变view的实际位置。
4. view动画（takes less time to setup and requires less code to write）

# 转场动效

官方向导[Animating Views Using Scenes and Transitions](https://developer.android.google.cn/training/transitions/index.html)

## 几个概念：
> A scene defines a given state of an application’s UI, whereas a transition defines the animated change between two scenes.

The basic process to animate between two layouts is as follows:

1. Create a Scene object for both the starting layout and the ending layout. However, the starting layout's scene is often determined automatically from the current layout.
2. Create a Transition object to define what type of animation you want.
3. Call TransitionManager.go() and the system runs the animation to swap the layouts.


创建Scene
    1. 从静态布局创建
    2. 代码动态创建

Transition
    种类： Auto， Fading， changeBounds

    1. <fade xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android" />
    2. 
        Transition mFadeTransition =
        TransitionInflater.from(this).
        inflateTransition(R.transition.fade_transition);

    3. 代码动态创建
        Transition mFadeTransition = new Fade();

不使用场景
    使用条件： view变化前后对象树差不多

    To create a delayed transition within a single view hierarchy, follow these steps:

    1. When the event that triggers the transition occurs, call the TransitionManager.beginDelayedTransition() method providing the parent view of all the views you want to change and the transition to use. The framework stores the current state of the child views and their property values.
    2. Make changes to the child views as required by your use case. The framework records the changes you make to the child views and their properties.
    3. When the system redraws the user interface according to your changes, the framework animates the changes between the original state and the new state.a

    代码示例：
    // Create a new TextView and set some View properties
    mLabelText = new TextView();
    mLabelText.setText("Label").setId("1");

    // Get the root view and create a transition
    mRootView = (ViewGroup) findViewById(R.id.mainLayout);
    mFade = new Fade(IN);

    // Start recording changes to the view hierarchy
    TransitionManager.beginDelayedTransition(mRootView, mFade);

    // Add the new TextView to the view hierarchy
    mRootView.addView(mLabelTex)


 # 利用transition切换Activity

    setExitTransition() - A’s exit transition animates transitioning views out of the scene when A starts B.
    setEnterTransition() - B’s enter transition animates transitioning views into the scene when A starts B.
    setReturnTransition() - B’s return transition animates transitioning views out of the scene when B returns to A.
    setReenterTransition() - A’s reenter transition animates transitioning views into the scene when B returns to A.  
    
     


