# 学习笔记

## state的生命周期
测试工程
C:\workspace\android_demo\flutter_learn

生命周期函数
- initState
    Called when this object is inserted into the tree
    创建的时候执行一次（只有一次）
- deactivate
    Called when this object is removed from the tree
    从树删除
- dispose
    Called when this object is removed from the tree permanently.
    从书永久删除

- didChangeDependencies
    Called when a dependency of this [State] object changes.
    InheritedWidget
    initState后立即调用
    很少override, 可以作为expensive work的入口
    
- didUpdateWidget
    Called whenever the widget configuration changes.
    绑定的widget的发生变更（the same [runtimeType] and [Widget.key]）


```
/// Tracks the lifecycle of [State] objects when asserts are enabled.
enum _StateLifecycle {
  /// The [State] object has been created. [State.initState] is called at this
  /// time.
  created,

  /// The [State.initState] method has been called but the [State] object is
  /// not yet ready to build. [State.didChangeDependencies] is called at this time.
  initialized,

  /// The [State] object is ready to build and [State.dispose] has not yet been
  /// called.
  ready,

  /// The [State.dispose] method has been called and the [State] object is
  /// no longer able to build.
  defunct,
}
```
 
 ## BuildContext
    A handle to the location of a widget in the widget tree.


## Inside Flutter
[site](https://flutter.io/docs/resources/inside-flutter)


## Why everything is widget is good design.

widget & state

widget is imutable (widget 不可变, State可变)

## widget 的key localkey & global key

  /// Controls how one widget replaces another widget in the tree.
  ///
  /// If the [runtimeType] and [key] properties of the two widgets are
  /// [operator==], respectively, then the new widget replaces the old widget by
  /// updating the underlying element (i.e., by calling [Element.update] with the
  /// new widget). Otherwise, the old element is removed from the tree, the new
  /// widget is inflated into an element, and the new element is inserted into the
  /// tree.  （widget的可替换性)
  ///
  /// In addition, using a [GlobalKey] as the widget's [key] allows the element
  /// to be moved around the tree (changing parent) without losing state.  (state is global)
  /// When a new widget is found (its key and type do not match a previous widget in
  /// the same location), but there was a widget with that same global key
  /// elsewhere in the tree in the previous frame, then that widget's element is
  /// moved to the new location.
  ///
  /// Generally, a widget that is the only child of another widget does not need
  /// an explicit key. （唯一的child不需要key）


## Element
 An instantiation of a [Widget] at a particular location in the tree.

 /// Widgets describe how to configure a subtree but the same widget can be used
/// to configure multiple subtrees simultaneously because widgets are immutable.
/// An [Element] represents the use of a widget to configure a specific location
/// in the tree. Over time, the widget associated with a given element can
/// change, for example, if the parent widget rebuilds and creates a new widget
/// for this location.


## Layout & Draw & Event



## RenderObject

/// An object in the render tree.
///
/// The [RenderObject] class hierarchy is the core of the rendering
/// library's reason for being.
///
/// [RenderObject]s have a [parent], and have a slot called [parentData] in
/// which the parent [RenderObject] can store child-specific data, for example,
/// the child position. The [RenderObject] class also implements the basic
/// layout and paint protocols.
///
/// The [RenderObject] class, however, does not define a child model (e.g.
/// whether a node has zero, one, or more children). It also doesn't define a
/// coordinate system (e.g. whether children are positioned in Cartesian
/// coordinates, in polar coordinates, etc) or a specific layout protocol (e.g.
/// whether the layout is width-in-height-out, or constraint-in-size-out, or
/// whether the parent sets the size and position of the child before or after
/// the child lays out, etc; or indeed whether the children are allowed to read
/// their parent's [parentData] slot).
///
/// The [RenderBox] subclass introduces the opinion that the layout
/// system uses Cartesian coordinates.
///
/// ## Writing a RenderObject subclass
///
/// In most cases, subclassing [RenderObject] itself is overkill, and
/// [RenderBox] would be a better starting point. However, if a render object
/// doesn't want to use a Cartesian coordinate system, then it should indeed
/// inherit from [RenderObject] directly. This allows it to define its own
/// layout protocol by using a new subclass of [Constraints] rather than using
/// [BoxConstraints], and by potentially using an entirely new set of objects
/// and values to represent the result of the output rather than just a [Size].
/// This increased flexibility comes at the cost of not being able to rely on
/// the features of [RenderBox]. For example, [RenderBox] implements an
/// intrinsic sizing protocol that allows you to measure a child without fully
/// laying it out, in such a way that if that child changes size, the parent
/// will be laid out again (to take into account the new dimensions of the
/// child). This is a subtle and bug-prone feature to get right.
///
/// Most aspects of writing a [RenderBox] apply to writing a [RenderObject] as
/// well, and therefore the discussion at [RenderBox] is recommended background
/// reading. The main differences are around layout and hit testing, since those
/// are the aspects that [RenderBox] primarily specializes.
///
/// ### Layout
///
/// A layout protocol begins with a subclass of [Constraints]. See the
/// discussion at [Constraints] for more information on how to write a
/// [Constraints] subclass.
///
/// The [performLayout] method should take the [constraints], and apply them.
/// The output of the layout algorithm is fields set on the object that describe
/// the geometry of the object for the purposes of the parent's layout. For
/// example, with [RenderBox] the output is the [RenderBox.size] field. This
/// output should only be read by the parent if the parent specified
/// `parentUsesSize` as true when calling [layout] on the child.
///
/// Anytime anything changes on a render object that would affect the layout of
/// that object, it should call [markNeedsLayout].
///
/// ### Hit Testing
///
/// Hit testing is even more open-ended than layout. There is no method to
/// override, you are expected to provide one.
///
/// The general behavior of your hit-testing method should be similar to the
/// behavior described for [RenderBox]. The main difference is that the input
/// need not be an [Offset]. You are also allowed to use a different subclass of
/// [HitTestEntry] when adding entries to the [HitTestResult]. When the
/// [handleEvent] method is called, the same object that was added to the
/// [HitTestResult] will be passed in, so it can be used to track information
/// like the precise coordinate of the hit, in whatever coordinate system is
/// used by the new layout protocol.
///
/// ### Adapting from one protocol to another
///
/// In general, the root of a Flutter render object tree is a [RenderView]. This
/// object has a single child, which must be a [RenderBox]. Thus, if you want to
/// have a custom [RenderObject] subclass in the render tree, you have two
/// choices: you either need to replace the [RenderView] itself, or you need to
/// have a [RenderBox] that has your class as its child. (The latter is the much
/// more common case.)
///
/// This [RenderBox] subclass converts from the box protocol to the protocol of
/// your class.
///
/// In particular, this means that for hit testing it overrides
/// [RenderBox.hitTest], and calls whatever method you have in your class for
/// hit testing.
///
/// Similarly, it overrides [performLayout] to create a [Constraints] object
/// appropriate for your class and passes that to the child's [layout] method.
///
/// ### Layout interactions between render objects
///
/// In general, the layout of a render object should only depend on the output of
/// its child's layout, and then only if `parentUsesSize` is set to true in the
/// [layout] call. Furthermore, if it is set to true, the parent must call the
/// child's [layout] if the child is to be rendered, because otherwise the
/// parent will not be notified when the child changes its layout outputs.
///
/// It is possible to set up render object protocols that transfer additional
/// information. For example, in the [RenderBox] protocol you can query your
/// children's intrinsic dimensions and baseline geometry. However, if this is
/// done then it is imperative that the child call [markNeedsLayout] on the
/// parent any time that additional information changes, if the parent used it
/// in the last layout phase. For an example of how to implement this, see the
/// [RenderBox.markNeedsLayout] method. It overrides
/// [RenderObject.markNeedsLayout] so that if a parent has queried the intrinsic
/// or baseline information, it gets marked dirty whenever the child's geometry
/// changes.


## 层次
widget -> Element -> RenderObject

树型结构， 树的遍历
